.TH GETFATTR 1 "Extended Attributes" "Dec 2001" "File Utilities"
.SH NAME
getfattr \- get extended attributes of filesystem objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3getfattr\f1 [\f3\-hRLP\f1] \f3\-n name\f1 [\f3\-e en\f1] \c
\f3pathname\f1...
\f3getfattr\f1 [\f3\-hRLP\f1] \f3\-d\f1 [\f3\-e en\f1] \c
[\f3\-m pattern\f1] \f3pathname\f1...
\f3getfattr\f1 [\f3\-\-version\f1]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each file,
.B getfattr
displays the file name,
and the set of extended attribute names (and optionally values) which
are associated with that file.
.PP
The output format of
.B "getfattr \-d"
is as follows:
.fam C
.RS
.nf
 1:  # file: somedir/
 2:  user.name0="value0"
 3:  user.name1="value1"
 4:  user.name2="value2"
 5:  ...
.fi
.RE
.fam T
.PP
Line 1 identifies the file name for which the
following lines are being reported.
The remaining lines (lines 2 to 4 above) show the
.I name
and 
.I value
pairs associated with the specified file.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP 4
.BR \-n " \f2name\f1, " \-\-name "=\f2name\f1"
Dump the value of the named extended attribute extended attribute.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dump
Dump the values of all extended attributes associated with
.IR pathname .
.TP
.BR \-e " \f2en\f1, " \-\-encoding "=\f2en\f1"
Encode values after retrieving them.
Valid values of
.I en
are "text", "hex", and "base64".
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-no-dereference
Do not follow symlinks - if
.I pathname
is a symbolic link, it is not followed, but is instead itself the
inode being examined.
.TP
.BR \-m " \f2pattern\f1, " \-\-match "=\f2pattern\f1"
.I pattern
is a regular expression pattern to apply to the set of extended
attribute names being returned.
It defaults to "^user\\." if no
.B \-m
is specified, which causes
.B getfattr
to operate on only extended attributes from the user namespace.
Refer to
.BR attr (5)
for a more detailed discussion on namespaces.
.TP
.B \-\-absolute-names
Suppress the stripping of leading '/' from an absolute
.IR pathname .
.TP
.B \-\-only-values
Dump out the extended attribute value(s) only.
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-recursive
Recurse into subdirectories, dumping extended attributes for each file
encountered (breadth first).
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-logical
Refines the \-R option - "logical walk" (do follow symbolic links).
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-physical
Refines the \-R option - "physical walk" (do not follow symbolic links).
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version of
.B getfattr
and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print help explaining the command line options.
.TP
.B \-\-
End of command line options.
All remaining parameters are interpreted as file names, even if they
start with a dash character.
.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Gruenbacher,
.RI < a.gruenbacher@computer.org >
and the SGI XFS development team,
.RI < linux-xfs@oss.sgi.com >.
.P
Please send your bug reports or comments to these addresses.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
setfattr(1), and attr(5).
