.\" Copyright (C) 2002, 2004  Silicon Graphics, Inc. Al rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, 2004  Andreas Gruenbacher <agruen@suse.de>
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual.  If not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH SETFATTR 1 "Extended Attributes" "Dec 2001" "File Utilities"
.SH NAME
setfattr \- set extended attributes of filesystem objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3setfattr\f1 [\f3\-h\f1] \f3\-n name\f1 [\f3\-v value\f1] \f3pathname\f1...
\f3setfattr\f1 [\f3\-h\f1] \f3\-x name\f1 \f3pathname\f1...
\f3setfattr\f1 [\f3\-h\f1] \f3\-\-restore=file\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B setfattr
command associates a new
.I value
with an extended attribute
.IR name
for each specified file.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP 4
.BR \-n " \f2name\f1, " \-\-name "=\f2name\f1"
Specifies the name of the extended attribute to set.
.TP
.BR \-v " \f2value\f1, " \-\-value "=\f2value\f1"
Specifies the new value for the extended attribute.
.TP
.BR \-x " \f2name\f1, " \-\-remove "=\f2name\f1"
Remove the named extended attribute entirely.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-no-dereference
Do not follow symlinks.  If
.I pathname
is a symbolic link, it is not followed, but is instead itself the
inode being modified.
.TP
.BR \-\-restore =\f2file\f1
Restores extended attributes from file.
The file must be in the format generated by the
.B getfattr
command with the
.B \-\-dump
option.
If a dash (\c
.IR \- )
is given as the file name,
.B setfattr
reads from standard input.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version of
.B setfattr
and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print help explaining the command line options.
.TP
.B \-\-
End of command line options.
All remaining parameters are interpreted as file names, even if they
start with a dash character.
.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Gruenbacher,
.RI < a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at >
and the SGI XFS development team,
.RI < linux-xfs@oss.sgi.com >.
.P
Please send your bug reports or comments to these addresses.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getfattr(1), and attr(5).
